AC  GenProp0040
DE  Thiotemplate type non-ribosomal peptide biosynthesis
TP  SYSTEM
AU  Haft DH
TH  0
CC  Non-ribosomal peptides are an important class of natural product which
CC  are assembled by the sequential addition of units containing amino acid
CC  groups in peptide linkages.  These natural products include
CC  antibiotics, siderophores, toxins and other compounds of biological and
CC  economic importance.      These products are synthesized on large
CC  proteins called non-ribosomal peptide synthetases (NRPSs) which specify
CC  the amino acids to be added by the sequence of amino acid adenylation
CC  (activation) domains along the synthetase.  NRPSs may utilize many more
CC  amino acids than the 20 to which the ribosomes are limited.  In
CC  addition, NRPSs may form linkages between side-chain amino and
CC  carboxylate groups and may contain domains which catalyze
CC  epimerization, methylation, cross-linking, cyclization, oxidation,
CC  reduction and other modifications to the growing peptide chain.  Chain
CC  initiation may incorporate fatty acids (in the case of
CC  lipodepsipeptides) or other non-amino acid, carboxylate-containing
CC  compounds and NRPSs may work in concert with polyketide synthetases to
CC  form hybrid peptide-ketide natural products.    NRPSs, like type I
CC  polyketide synthetases, work via a thio-template mechanism in which the
CC  activated units are transferred to the thiol of bound pantetheine
CC  groups in a thio-ester linkage (of the amino acid carboxylates). 
CC  Condensation domains then join two thioester-bound units to form a
CC  peptide bond.  Release of the complete polypeptide chain may be via
CC  cyclization or through the action of a thioesterase or thioester
CC  reductase.     Many of the constituent domains of NRPSs have been
CC  defined by HMM models.  These include adenylation (AMP-binding enzyme,
CC  PF00501), condensation (PF00668), acyl/peptidyl carrier protein
CC  (thiolation, pantetheine-binding, PF00550), thioesterase (PF00975) and
CC  thioester reductase (TIGR01746) domains.  In addition, the pantetheine
CC  binding domains are identified by a pair of PROSITE motifs (PS00012,
CC  PS50075).    The minimal components of an NRPS are the C
CC  (condensation), A (adenylation) and T (thiolation) domains which are
CC  commonly organized into CAT modules.  NRPSs are detected as genes which
CC  contain hits to all three of these domains.  Genomes with at least one
CC  ORF which fulfills this condition will be assigned the YES state for
CC  this property.  The value field will hold the number of ORFs found to
CC  be NRPSs.  NRPSs may, however, be broken up into multiple genes at
CC  domain boundaries and thus the possibility exists of missing NRPS genes
CC  which are short and broken up into pieces having only two of the three
CC  essential domains.  If the state NO has been set, this indicates that
CC  the genome has been manually reviewed.     
**  At present, the rule for this property does not enter the feat_names
**  into the prop_feat_link table
--
SN  C+A+T
ID  Condensation, adenylation and thiloation domains in a single ORF
RQ  1
//
