AC  GenProp0016
DE  selenocysteine system
TP  SYSTEM
AU  Haft D
TH  1
DC  Selenocompound metabolism
DR  KEGG; map00450;
CC  The property of incorporating selenocysteine as an alternate amino acid
CC  during protein translation from mRNA. The site of incorporation often
CC  aligns to an active site Cys residue of a homologous protein in a
CC  selenocysteine-negative species. One required element is a
CC  selenocysteine-specific tRNA (selC) to recognize a TGA codon in the
CC  appropriate context. Two required proteins are a
CC  selenocysteine-specific elongation factor (SelB), and a selenium donor
CC  protein (selD) that may participate in other systems in addition or
CC  instead (selenouridine biosynthesis, and selenium-dependent molybdenum
CC  hydroxylase maturation). Finally, a mechanism for converting the serine
CC  placed on selenocysteine-specific tRNA into selenocysteine is required.
CC  This is achieved by seryl-t RNA(sec) selenium transferase (SelA) in
CC  bacteria, but in a two-step process starting with phosphorylation in
CC  the Archaea and Eukaryota.  Note that SelD may itself be a
CC  selenoprotein, and so may appear truncated by a stop codon, thus not
CC  triggering the rule to assign the selenocysteine property
CC  automatically. Before the state of this property is set to "YES", an
CC  example of a potential  selenocysteine-containing protein must be
CC  manually annotated. Commonly observed selenoproteins include the
CC  selenium donor protein SelD (selenide, water dikinase) and subunits of
CC  formate dehydrogenase, thioredoxin reductase, glycine reductase,
CC  heterodisulfide reductase, methylviologen-reducing hydrogenase and
CC  glutathione peroxidase.  In certain species all components of the
CC  system can be found save the SelC tRNA (including examples) even after
CC  a manual search. These are given the state "PARTIAL" to indicate the
CC  possibility that either the ability to incorporate selenocysteine has
CC  been lost (and the examples are actually truncated or not expressed) or
CC  an as-of-yet undescribed tRNA system exists in these species.  The
CC  selenium donor protein seems to occur in some species that lack the
CC  selenium-specific tRNA, elongation factor, and transferase. This
CC  usually reflects the incorporation of selenium into certain tRNAs. Note
CC  also that selenium is sometimes used to label proteins in vitro, so not
CC  every literature reference to selenocysteine implies incorporation
CC  during translation.  An analogous system, discovered more recently,
CC  incorporates pyrrolysine at specific TAG codons.
**  Partial edit: SelA in the archaea actually changes Ser-tRNA(Sec) to
**  Sep-tRNA(Sec). The phosphorylated ser gets selenium by TIGR03531.  A
**  tRNA in mycoplasma species is identified by the tRNA-finding software
**  as SelC, but in fact corresponds to a Trp-specific tRNA due to an
**  alternative genetic code in these species.
--
SN  1
ID  selenocysteine-containing proteins
DN  NOT APPLICABLE
RQ  1
--
SN  2
ID  Sec-tRNA(Sec) synthesis
DN  L-seryl-tRNA(Sec) selenium transferase
RQ  1
EV  IPR004534; TIGR00474; sufficient;
TG  GO:0016260;
EV  GenProp0797;
TG  GO:0016260;
--
SN  3
ID  selenocysteine-specific translation elongation factor
DN  selenocysteine-specific translation elongation factor
RQ  1
EV  IPR004535; TIGR00475; sufficient;
TG  GO:0001514;
--
SN  4
ID  selenocysteine-specific tRNA (tRNA-SeC)
DN  NOT APPLICABLE
RQ  1
--
SN  5
ID  selenide, water dikinase
DN  selenide, water dikinase
RQ  1
EV  IPR004536; TIGR00476; sufficient;
TG  GO:0016260;
//
