AC  GenProp0014
DE  polyketide biosynthesis, type I
TP  SYSTEM
AU  Haft D
TH  0
CC  Allowed states:  YES  NO    Polyketides are an important class of
CC  natural product which are assembled by the sequential addition of units
CC  containing at minimum one acetate group.  Polyketides include many
CC  antibiotics and other compounds of biological and economic importance. 
CC  Polyketides may be synthesized by large multi-domain proteins (Type I
CC  polyketide synthetases) which carry out a so-called thio-template
CC  program in which successive modules of domains add single units to the
CC  growing end of the polyketide chain, modify the newly added piece
CC  (usually a series of reductions) and pass the chain on to the next
CC  module.  The overall mechanism is similar to that observed in the
CC  biosynthesis of fatty acids in animals via the Type I fatty acid
CC  synthases.  By contrast, Type II polyketide synthetases, which are
CC  similar to the Type II fatty acid synthases found in bacteria and
CC  plants, consist of separate proteins for each of the various functions
CC  involved in the overall process.  Plant chalcones and stilbenes are
CC  synthesized by yet a third style of synthetase in which a single
CC  condensing enzyme is active for all condensation steps.    Many of the
CC  constituent domains of type I polyketide synthetases have been defined
CC  by HMM models.  These include acyl transferase (PF00698),
CC  beta-ketoacyl-synthase (PF00109, PF02801), acyl carrier protein
CC  (PF00550) and thioesterase (PF00975) domains.  Other commonly found
CC  domains which have not yet been represented by HMMs include
CC  ketoreductase, dehydratase and enoyl reductase domains.    This genome
CC  property will be set to YES if any single gene in the genome contains
CC  domains corresponding to PF00698, PF00109, PF02801 and PF00550.  (These
CC  correspond to the minimum set of domains for production of a polyketide
CC  chain.)  Failing that condition, a YES will be set if two consecutive
CC  genes in combination contain all of these domains (as type I polyketide
CC  synthetases are sometimes found as multiple genes broken up between
CC  some, but not all, of the domains).  Otherwise, the propery will be set
CC  to NO.  A NULL value indicates that the genome has not yet been
CC  evaluated with regard to this property.
--
SN  AT+KS+TE
ID  acyl trans, keto synth and thioest domains in the same ORF
DN  NOT APPLICABLE
RQ  1
//
