AC  GenProp0065
DE  Genome properties
TP  ROOT
AU  Haft DH
TH  0
RN  [1]
RM  15347579
RT  Genome Properties: a system for the investigation of prokaryotic
RT  genetic content for microbiology, genome annotation and comparative
RT  genomics.
RA  Haft DH, Selengut JD, Brinkac LM, Zafar N, White O;
RL  Bioinformatics. 2005;21:293-306.
CC  Properties of organisms whose genomes have been sequenced.  These
CC  properties  include those whose state can be supported by inference
CC  from the genomic data  itself as well as those supported by
CC  experimental observations. Properties are organized in a type of
CC  heirarchy called a Directed Acyclyic  Graph (a DAG) in which child
CC  terms may have multiple parent terms.  Thus, for instance, a property
CC  for the biosynthesis of a particular cofactor may be found as a child
CC  of both "biosynthesis" and "protein cofactors". Properties come in
CC  several types:  PATHWAY properties describe metabolic pathways in which
CC  a series of enzymes convert substrates into products to produce
CC  desirable substances and/or degrade undesirable ones.  A set of these
CC  steps have been determined to be both 1) unambiguously indicative of
CC  the property and 2) as universally detectable as is practical among the
CC   species believed to have this pathway active.  The presence or absence
CC  of these steps in a genome are used to judge the status of the
CC  property. Those genomes with all of the set present are given the "YES"
CC  state, those with none are given the "NONE FOUND" state.  Each pathway
CC  may be be given  a threshold number of detected steps below which the
CC  state "NOT SUPPORTED"  is assigned.  Otherwise, the state "INCOMPLETE"
CC  is assigned.  Under  certain circumstances of additional evidence (such
CC  as the presence of a complete alternative pathway) a "NONE FOUND state
CC  may be strengthened to  "NO".  SYSTEM properties work in essentially
CC  the identical way, except they may not represent a metabolic pathway. 
CC  In both of these cases the  "value" field will hold a number
CC  representing the fraction of steps used to  assign the state of the
CC  property which were found in the genome.  MARKER  properties are
CC  similar except that only a single type of protein is  detected and
CC  serves as an indicator for the presence of a property.  Here the value
CC  field holds the number of times the marker was detected in the genome. 
CC  In all three of these types, other proteins outside of the set  chosen
CC  for determineing the state of the property may also be detected. These
CC  may include proteins which are presently detectable only in some 
CC  species, auxilliary or variable components, regulatory components, etc.
CC  Accessions of all of the detected proteins are stored for user
CC  retrieval. LITERATURE properties are set based on experimental
CC  evidence, not on the content of the sequenced genome.  These properties
CC  may detect associated proteins which are stored as above.  These may
CC  also store a number in the  value field where apropriate. QUANTITATIVE
CC  properties are calculated from the sequenced genome and store a numeric
CC  quantity in the "value" field. TAXONOMY properties store information
CC  about the taxonomic classification of the organism.  These are based on
CC  NCBIs taxonomy database and are used for organizing the output of
CC  properties queries to look for trends based on phylogeny. SUMMARY
CC  properties are parent properties of one or more related properties
CC  whose states are summarized in the state of the parent property.
CC  CATEGORY properties do not have states, but organize the properties
CC  through parent-child relationships.
//
